Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
IGOR: You know this story.
The crack of lightning.
A mad genius.
An unholy creation.
The world, of course,
remembers the monster,
not the man.
But sometimes, when
you look closely...
there's more to a tale.
Sometimes the
monster is the man.
I've been with the circus
for as long as I can remember.
Circuses like to think
of themselves as families.
But, of course,
each one has its clown.
(AUDIENCE CHEERING)
(CIRCUS MUSIC PLAYING)
(PANTING)
Oh!
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
I didn't have a
name back then.
I was just "the hunchback".
Or "freak", if you
were being kind.
But the truth is,
I didn't hate them for it.
It's hard to judge cruelty
when you've
never known kindness.
Besides, I always had
someone to look up to.
When I wasn't performing,
I served as the
company's doctor.
I became fascinated by
the science of medicine.
Particularly of human anatomy.
I wanted to understand
everything about...
...this internal universe
that makes us who we are.
The brains, lungs,
bones, muscles.
The heart.
I don't know why
the science of life
captured my imagination.
I think it just
helped me escape.
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
(IGOR MUTTERING)
My God!
You really think you're smart,
don't you, eh? Huh?
A real intellectual.
What an embarrassment
that must be!
(MAN SHOUTING)
Oi!
You're on!
(PEOPLE EXCLAIMING)
IGOR: Little did I know
that on a chilly
London evening...
...I was about to meet the man
who would change
my life forever.
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
(GROWLING)
BARNABY: Ladies and gentlemen!
Witness now the
death-defying feats
of our very own
bird in the sky...
The beautiful Lorelei!
(AUDIENCE CHEERING)
(CIRCUS MUSIC PLAYING)
(AUDIENCE GASPING
IN WONDERMENT)
(ALL GASP)
(GROANS)
Lorelei!
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
Lorelei! Lorelei!
Oh, Lorelei!
She can't breathe!
Previous injuries?
Uh, she broke her
arm a year ago
and her collarbone
sometime before that.
Oh! Oh, my God.
VICTOR: Collarbone
is rebroken,
shoulder's dislocated,
causing pressure on the lungs.
She can't breathe.
(STAMMERING) What do we do?
Nothing, I'm afraid.
Don't have the tools
to reset the bone.
Do you have a pocket watch?
Give it to me.
I'm not giving you...
Do this now or she dies!
Come on!
VICTOR: Wait.
That dislocation is
forcing the sternum
to rest at an
untenable angle, yes?
Yes. Ready?
Set?
Three, two, one...
(LORELEI GASPING)
(EXCLAIMS) Yes!
There we are.
LORELEI: You saved me.
Breathe.
LORELEI: (PANTING) Thank you.
VICTOR: That was incredible.
Why are you wearing
that silly makeup?
Well, I'm a clown.
You're not a clown,
you're a physician...
...who just performed
a dry surgery
in less than a minute
with nothing to prepare.
Well, I'm a clown physician.
BARNABY: Don't panic,
ladies and gentlemen!
All part of the act!
You're being wasted here.
I'm with the circus, sir.
VICTOR: You're going to
leave the bloody circus.
What's going on?
You're a doctor, then?
VICTOR: On my better days.
Chiswick Cross Hospital
is just up the road.
I can lead your
men there now.
Get her out of
here sharpish!
Go out the back way.
(LORELEI EXHALES DEEPLY)
Don't want her
upsetting the clientele.
(AUDIENCE CHEERING)
Where are they taking
that poor creature?
Sir! Please, may
I know your name?
(GASPS)
Ladies and gentlemen!
The Human Cannonball!
(AUDIENCE CHEERING)
Please, no!
BARNABY: You sneaky rat!
You want to leave?
I own you!
I've had enough
of these books!
You belong to the circus!
Burn them!
IGOR: Please, Master Barnaby,
it's my only thing.
(STRONGMAN GRUNTING)
No! No!
(BARNABY LAUGHS)
Get out of there!
(GRUNTS)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
Let that be a lesson to you!
Get in there!
You are going nowhere!
(IGOR GROANS)
(WOMEN LAUGHING)
Do you know what's happened
to Lorelei?
Romanticizing, are we?
She's probably gonna
die, you know that.
These city doctors and
their dirty hospitals.
(LAUGHS)
Ow!
What are you doing?
High powered magnet.
Should work. Usually does.
Hold on, sir.
You don't know what he'll do to me.
Don't I?
I can't just leave.
Of course you can.
No, sir, they own me!
You are better than this.
You can be better.
I can get you out,
but you'll have
to trust me, understand?
BARNABY: Oi!
Choose now or remain here
for the rest of your days.
Get away from that cage!
You hear me?!
Open it!
BARNABY: Oi!
Get him! He's property
of the circus!
Now, the thing is... (GRUNTS)
(INDISTINCT SHOUTING)
BARNABY: He's robbed us!
The hunchback! He's attacked
me and robbed the circus!
Get him!
Get after him!
(GRUNTS)
(GASPS)
Don't touch him!
Go!
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(FIREWORKS POPPING)
(PEOPLE CLAMORING)
(LAUGHING)
(CONTINUES LAUGHING)
RAFFERTY: Got you.
What do we do?
What do we do now?
(GROANING)
MAN: Oh, shit.
(AUDIENCE CHEERING)
(HORSES WHINNYING)
How do we get out of here?
You know this place,
damn it! How do we...
BARNABY: Where are they?
STRONGMAN: Whoa!
(BOTH PANTING)
(VICTOR LAUGHS)
I'm not in the circus.
What?
Yes, very good.
Come along!
IGOR: I've never been out
of the circus before, sir.
VICTOR: Eyes open,
door shut. Coat off.
Coat off.
We're going to
slip into something
a little more comfortable.
(DOOR OPENS)
(INSTRUMENTS CLATTERING)
(GRUNTS)
What's that for?
Next order of business.
No. What are you
gonna do to me?
Absolutely nothing.
Don't worry about it.
Look.
This is going to hurt
just a little bit.
(BOTH GRUNTING)
What are you doing to me?
Listen to me!
You are not...
...a hunchback.
(SCREAMING)
Not a real one,
anyway. No.
You have an abscess...
causing a fluid
pocket, a rather...
...large fluid sac.
It hurts!
Yes, I imagine it does.
You'd be surprised
how often I hear that.
(GROANING)
(VICTOR SPITS)
Oh, looking at the
size of this beauty,
I'd say it's gone
untreated for, oh...
...18 years, but...
...the good news
is, I'm convinced
that if we can drain it...
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
...in three...
...two...
...one. And pulling out.
(IGOR GROANS)
(IGOR PANTING)
Garde à l'eau!
(PEOPLE SCREAM)
(PANTING) Right.
That's the easy part done.
Easy part?
(LAUGHS)
(SCREAMS)
(BONES CRACKING)
You're all right!
And up... we... go.
(BOTH GRUNT)
Now, your muscles...
...your bones...
...your entire
skeletal system...
...will be struggling
to reset themselves...
...to return you to your
former ground-sniffing...
...Luddite-bearing
posture of the last...
...18 years.
So, for the time
being, my friend,
you shall have to
wear this rather...
...wonderful back brace
I constructed for Gordon.
IGOR: Who?
I'm standing up!
That's rather obvious.
I haven't overestimated
your intelligence, have I?
It's just I'm not
in the circus
and now I'm standing up.
Yeah, you said that.
Right!
Library and study are over
there. Kitchen's over there.
IGOR: I'm standing up.
Your bedroom's on the right.
There's a water heater
and soap in there.
I suggest you use it to
do something about your...
...hair.
I'll be in the basement for
the rest of the evening,
as I have school...
...in the morning.
Make yourself at home,
don't touch anything.
Oh!
By the way, I had,
have a flatmate.
Goes by the name
of Igor Straussman.
Man's a morphine addict.
Idiot. Complete liar.
Thankfully for us,
he's almost...
...never home.
So, should anyone question
your presence here,
you are to say
that you are he.
I'm Igor?
Very good.
(DOOR SLAMS)
"Hello, my name is Igor."
(ELECTRICITY CRACKLING)
TURPIN: Let's see.
A dangerous hunchback is
detained for the safety
of the public...
...with a determined and
equally dangerous accomplice.
They proceed to the
circus owner's trailer,
where they rob the
safe of its contents.
They make their violent
escape, culminating...
...in the murder
of an innocent man,
and vanishing...
(ECHOING) ...into thin air.
A fair summing up, Alistair?
Yes, Inspector.
Escape, robbery, murder.
Just as Mr. Barnaby said.
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
TURPIN: Now here's what
I think happened, Alistair.
A human being with
a spinal deformity
is locked up
against his will.
Perhaps a common feature
of his treatment here.
A stranger releases him...
...using a magnet
and tickler...
...as any fool can.
They make their escape
urgently, as they must...
...for the circus
is against them.
They flee.
A chase.
A man dies.
Manslaughter in self-defense
at most, I would say.
"Wanted for murder."
Have it copied.
I thought you said it wasn't...
I did.
Something tells me
our circus freak...
may be only the beginning.
Good morning!
VICTOR: Igor:
At school till six.
Clothes in the wardrobe.
Money and key in
the tin by the door.
Be home for dinner. F.
IGOR: Chiswick Hospital.
(INDISTINCT CLAMOR)
(BARKERS SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY)
(DOCTOR SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY)
Doctor?
DOCTOR: This way, gentlemen.
We have amputation to perform.
You.
What, me?
Yeah.
She needs camphor
inhalations twice a day,
uh, extract of allium...
...a quarter ounce of arsenic
and three of Filcher's Oil,
but more if you can get it.
I can't do that.
You can.
(STAMMERING) And then
when she wakes, tell her...
...a friend will be back.
(DRIVER SHOUTING)
(GROANS)
TURPIN: Six months ago,
a man tried to buy parts of
recently deceased animals...
...at the London
Zoological Gardens.
He was turned away.
Two weeks later, there
was a forced entry.
Animal limbs amputated
and stolen.
A month later,
a similar pattern of events
at the Veterinary Academy.
ALISTAIR: Sounds
gruesome, but what...
I confiscated that from the
crime scene at the circus.
Open it.
Sir...
...this is disgusting.
It belonged to a lioness
recently deceased.
But it was found near our
murder victim at the circus...
...and it didn't walk
there of its own accord.
You think there's
a connection?
I think our other
man at the circus
fits the same
description as this...
...animal thief.
But who would do that?
Huh?
What motive?
Something reeks here.
It reeks of an evil,
sinful mischief.
And now that man walks
the streets of this city.
Back in the mud so soon?
(CHUCKLES) Yes, I see.
Absolutely savage depiction
of me, I'm afraid.
(CLICKS TONGUE) Got the hair
all wrong, and the nose, too.
I'm new to this
criminal life,
but I never thought
the authorities
would attack my vanity.
They think I'm a murderer!
I've been called much
worse things in my time.
Besides... they're not
looking for you...
...are they?
They're looking for a piteous,
nameless hunchback.
And Igor, I would like you
to look at yourself.
Igor, that creature
no longer exists.
Dinner.
This is excellent.
So... what brought you to the
circus in the first place?
Cutlery.
What?
Use it.
Oh. Sorry.
Wipe your hands.
Animals.
Parts.
I am a student at
the Royal College of Medicine.
The curriculum
is straightforward,
the exams easy,
the professors...
Oh! The professors are
men of limited ability
and even more limited horizon.
Why did you rescue me?
You, my friend, were
an unexpected gift.
It's not every day
I come across a man,
albeit one suffering from
such grotesque deformity...
...who is so clearly talented,
observant, and resourceful...
...and in possession of the
most gifted pair of hands
I have ever seen.
My interest in you does
not stem from charity.
Follow me.
Before I met you,
I was to approach Mr. Barnaby
about acquiring some of
your deceased animals.
To what end? Study?
(LAUGHING)
No, not as you
would think of it.
I am of the strong
belief that death
can be made a
temporary condition.
That's impossible.
Improbable, yes.
Impossible, no.
Life is temporary.
Why should death
be any different?
(LAUGHS) I have absolutely
no time for false modesty.
So it is without
pride or shame
that I declare my
discovery an act of...
...genius.
Those eyes...
...they're over
three months old.
And the liquid is
an electrically conductive jelly
of my own device.
Serves a double function:
To preserve and to...
Well, just wait and see.
It's all a matter of
conversion, you see?
The conversion of
pure electrical energy
into the biological variety...
...that flows
through the human body.
Hence, the construction
of this device:
The Lazarus Fork.
I have found that
by passing that current through a...
...specially blended variety
of sulfates and metals...
You've mastered
the conversion?
Yes.
Well, show me.
Ready?
There. Do you see?
They live.
(VICTOR LAUGHING)
What do you think?
It is impressive.
But you have made
a mess of the nerves.
(STAMMERING)
I beg your pardon?
The oculomotor nerves.
You haven't connected
them properly.
That's why they
don't move evenly.
You.
(VICTOR LAUGHING)
There he is!
That's the man.
That's the man I'm after.
Thank you for asking.
You're welcome.
Now, I shall bring you
your assignments piecemeal.
You will complete them
in a timely fashion,
whereon I shall apply
them to a larger...
...whole of my own
device. Questions?
Uh, this larger whole...
...is not of your concern.
(STAMMERING)
Well, but if I...
Igor, I...
All this is now yours.
Every book. Every piece
of reference material.
Apparatus. Desk.
Room. Your laboratory,
if you like.
As my assistant, you shall
be at the very heart...
...of a scientific enterprise
that will change the world.
Now, will you help me?
Yeah. Fix that.
Ah. Thank you.
(ELECTRICITY CRACKLES)
Mmm-hmm.
(VICTOR GRUNTING)
VICTOR: Keep working on it.
(MECHANICAL WHIRRING)
(FAINT RHYTHMIC THUMPING)
IGOR: The hospital made
arrangements for Lorelei.
She now had a benefactor.
I was pleased
she had recovered
and had someone to
look after her, but...
...as the weeks went
by, I missed her.
And I wondered if her life
had changed as much as mine.
(ELECTRICITY CRACKLING)
(FAINT RHYTHMIC THUMPING)
(DOOR OPENING)
Uh...
Victor?
Mmm-hmm?
This letter for
Master Straussman.
We are going
out on the town.
Oh!
VICTOR: Here we are.
I have a tenured
membership at the club,
thanks to my father's...
(CLEARS THROAT)
...status as a
charter member.
Bought the velvet
for the seats.
IGOR: Your father...
VICTOR: Is what they
call a great man.
Esteemed doctor,
member of the Royal College
of Physicians, and...
...pioneer in the field
of cardio-physiology.
I should be honored
to meet him someday.
Uh, perhaps not.
Look, here's the club!
Master Victor, I'm not
sure I'm suited for this.
Pish!
Just keep your back straight,
your words clean,
and do your damnedest
not to embarrass me.
Babies grown in vats!
Victor, do you
think this is
really the appropriate
place to talk about this?
Help me! I am just
trying to inform
these two wonderful
young ladies that...
...fertilization needn't take
place inside the female body.
Sperm! Sperms!
Can sperm move?
They can.
Thank you.
Why can't it move
independently
towards the egg in, say, a...
(STAMMERING)
...bucket?
Where does the
mother fit in?
Exactly! You're off
educating yourself!
By the time we
need you, we're...
...sucking the fertilized
egg up into a funnel
and then we shuck
it up your...
(CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING)
(INAUDIBLE)
Igor?
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
LORELEI: Excuse me?
Sorry, I thought
I recognized you.
Well, you might do.
I don't remember your name.
Well, I never had one.
(GASPS)
It's you.
It's me.
Well, yeah,
a bit different.
You saved my life.
My life.
(MAN LAUGHING)
Boring!
IGOR: Friend of yours?
That's Baron Bomine.
He recruited me to
be in his cabaret...
...and his consort
in public.
Right.
(BOMINE LAUGHING)
He, uh... prefers
the company of men.
Oh.
(STAMMERS)
I have a name now.
I am Igor.
(LAUGHS)
What?
It's perfect.
VICTOR: This woman
seems to think
that the human brain is pink.
(PEOPLE GASPING)
In fact, it is grey.
That's Victor Frankenstein.
Grey like this oyster. I'm done.
(TRAY CLATTERS)
He's the man who rescued me.
And he helped save you.
Is he always like that?
No. He's very clever,
and he is kind.
He just finds
ordinary people very...
...ordinary.
Victor, how did you...
Who are you?
You're the fallen angel.
Plummeted from any other great
heights lately? (LAUGHING)
Maybe you should try this one.
It's only, oh...
...all of 30 feet.
You've had worse.
I'm afraid the only
thing plummeting here
is my opinion of you,
Mr. Frankenschteen.
Frankenstein.
All right, Victor.
Igor, um... (LAUGHS)
Igor speaks very
highly of you.
Would you like
to join us?
(PEOPLE EXCLAIMING)
Now, of course,
I can't tell you everything,
but suffice it to say...
...Igor and I stand
upon the cusp of...
...creating life
out of death.
(VICTOR LAUGHS)
Mr. Frankenstein...
Victor. Please.
I find your promise more
than a little unsettling.
Ooh.
Superstitious, are we?
No.
Are you not afraid
to challenge the natural order?
Igor, speak up.
What do you think?
Once, I would have agreed
with you, Lorelei,
but think about it.
Twenty years ago,
electric lights
would have been
thought of as magic.
Your injuries in the circus
would have been fatal.
Every day science
and technology
changes the way
we live our lives.
Look at me.
Well said, that man.
Life and death
are different.
"Life and death!"
I dream of a world where
hope replaces fear.
A world where
a murdered man
can stand in court
to face his murderer.
Where a crippled soldier,
shrapnel in his spine...
...can be killed, healed,
then brought back to
life to walk again.
Don't you see? The
possibilities are...
...endless! Life is beautiful!
But unfortunately
it is finite.
Now, tell me what that says.
"Death."
Thank you very much.
I cannot argue with that.
There it is,
in black and white.
But with a little
applied science...
...what do I give you now?
(CHUCKLES) "Life."
VICTOR: That's what
I'm trying to do.
Perhaps I spoke too soon.
VICTOR: You shouldn't
see that girl again.
What? Why?
Well, she's very nice.
Uneducated, superstitious.
Distraction from our work.
She's kind to me.
Tonight was not about
meaningless frivolity.
It was a celebration
of our work together.
I think it is high time...
you met our monster.
Don't tarry! Come, come, come!
Come on!
(MECHANICAL WHIRRING)
What is that?
Gordon.
What?
Gordon! (GRUNTING)
(STAMMERS)
You made this?
VICTOR: No, no, no.
We... made this.
Lungs, heart, spine, brain...
...all your work.
All...
...impossible
without you, in fact.
Victor...
You promised me this
was all about life.
It's about more than that.
Hands off.
Three... two...
...one.
(WHISPERING) Come on,
come on, come on.
Shh!
Look.
(LAUGHING SOFTLY)
It's alive.
Yes, it's... alive.
It's alive?
Victor... how?
Can't quite move yet.
Charge lasts barely an hour,
and the bottom half
is predominantly
a rude mockup.
You have created
life out of nothing!
Do you realize how
significant this is?
Oh, I have an inkling.
You are to accompany me
to the college tomorrow.
I've announced that I'll
be making a presentation
of my private work.
I'm coming to the
college with you?
As your assistant?
Igor, try not to
be quite so dim.
From this day forth...
...you are to be my partner.
(EXHALES SHARPLY)
MAID: Letter for you,
Miss Lorelei.
Letter? From who?
IGOR: Dear Lorelei:
We've had a breakthrough.
Please come to
the Royal College of Medicine,
Hall H, this evening at 8 PM.
Igor.
Big presentation in Hall H.
Presentation in Hall H.
Big presentation, Hall H!
Igor, around to the right.
Since the beginning
of modern medicine...
...there has been
an assumption...
...regarding the
status of mortality...
...that being that death...
...is an unavoidable...
...event, the inevitability
of which we should...
...take for granted.
(STAMMERS) I will show...
(CLEARS THROAT) ...today
that life is not some...
...grace bestowed
upon us by...
...some outdated notion
of an all-powerful...
Get on with it.
Yes, of course.
I'm not accustomed to public speaking.
Igor, would you prime
the dynamo for me, please?
Yes, master.
I would like to show you,
uh, show all seven of you...
...and, of course,
the young lady...
Come on, come on!
I have a coach waiting.
Uh... (SIGHS)
(STAMMERS)
I give to you... life...
...by my own... creation.
MAN: (SCOFFS) Cattle market.
I have built this homunculus
from various body parts...
...I got from...
the London Zoo.
They've had a terrible
time with the upkeep
of their exotic animals,
all to my benefit.
He's mainly chimpanzee...
...but with the aid of
my esteemed associate,
Igor Straussman,
we've managed to interlace...
...multiple individuals,
multiple species
as a matter of fact.
Igor, is it ready?
They're staring at me.
Thank you.
Do come to the front.
Get a closer look.
Don't be shy.
He won't bite.
Now, by the miracle
of electricity...
...I give you in
three, two, one...
...life.
(FLIES BUZZING)
(MEN EXCLAIMING IN DISGUST)
(MAN LAUGHING)
God!
MAN: I've seen enough.
(LAUGHS MOCKINGLY)
No!
Don't go!
Igor, shock him again. Harder.
Three, two, one... now!
(SHOUTS)
(FINNEGAN LAUGHS)
Frankenstein,
you've surpassed...
(SCREAMS IN PAIN)
...all expectations, even by
your own expansive mythos of
strangeness and perversion.
This is spectacular.
It's delightful!
Just an exquisite show of...
...depraved lunacy.
Igor.
Full charge.
Ready?
Igor?
Ready.
Now!
(SCREAMING)
(BOTH GROAN)
FINNEGAN: Oh, look,
there she goes, Victor.
Bing, bang... boom.
What have you got next?
Perhaps a midget
hidden inside your rotting
meat sculpture's stomach...
...ready to pop out
with a bouquet of ro...
(FAINT WHEEZING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
Do you see?
(GROANS)
(LORELEI SHOUTS)
(GASPS)
(GROWLING)
It's all right.
Gordon... Gordon...
Igor!
Lorelei, stay back!
(SCREECHING)
Lorelei, are
you all right?
Igor!
I'm fine.
VICTOR: Don't let him escape.
(IGOR PANTING)
(FLY BUZZING)
(GASPS)
(ELECTRICITY CRACKLES)
(IGOR GRUNTING)
Gordon! Stop!
Ahh!
(PANTING)
(MEN CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY)
No, no! Don't go out there!
(SNARLING)
(IGOR GRUNTING)
Victor!
Calm down, Gordon.
Get him off me!
Gordon?
Victor!
(GRUNTING)
Ahh!
Igor, what have
you done to him?
Victor! Help me, not him!
Victor, we have to kill it!
(PANTING)
Do it, Victor!
(GRUNTING)
IGOR: It was out of control!
We made progress today!
It was homicidal!
I had no way of
knowing that Gordon...
Am I to understand
that you built that?
Yes!
I apologize.
I misjudged you.
Your flaws,
though they're...
...glaring and massive,
are merely social...
...not intellectual.
I find your work
astonishing...
...and to be
perfectly frank...
...brilliant. Brilliant!
Quite beyond my own
ability to comprehend.
Could you create
another one?
I could, and a whole
lot more beside.
But that would take
considerable resource.
As you are aware,
I do come from the third
richest family in England.
As a result, I can provide you
with whatever it
is you so require.
In that case, yes.
And when you say... "more"?
A man.
A thinking, intelligent being.
Can we discuss this?
FINNEGAN: I like
this ambition.
You were right, Igor.
The beast was dangerous...
...but now we have
the opportunity
to show the value
of our work.
You and I, Igor... we shall
create a man after our own...
...image.
Think of it.
An intelligent...
...civilized...
...man.
I'll want another
demonstration.
I want to know whether
you can take direction.
Follow orders, so to speak.
Is that a problem?
Victor, we cannot.
No.
Excellent!
Expect to hear from me soon.
You did not create
this technology
and yet you presume to
tell me how to use it.
You should know your place!
Your ignorance of
the ways of the world
cannot hinder the furtherment
of my experimentation.
But surely you see
you have no control.
Surely you have forgotten
what I did for you
at the circus!
This is my destiny.
It is your destiny.
And that man represents
our only ally on this planet.
And if he wants us to make him
an entire zoo of homunculi,
that is exactly
what we will do...
...if it ensures the
furtherment of our research.
Am I making myself clear?
Am I making myself clear?!
Yes, Victor!
(THUNDER CRASHING)
(FLIES BUZZING)
BARNABY: I own you!
You belong to the circus!
(MOCKING LAUGHTER)
(GASPS)
(BANGING ON DOOR)
Good morning.
Can I help you?
Detective Inspector
Turpin, Scotland Yard.
I want to speak with
a Mr. Frankenstein.
I'm afraid that's
not convenient
at the moment, sir.
May I know your business?
Do you miss the circus?
I'm not sure what
you mean, sir.
Get me Frankenstein.
I've informed the college
I would happily pay
for the damage. Just
a bit of broken glass.
An animal was
involved apparently.
There was indeed.
Mr. Straussman and I
are currently involved
in the study of...
...chimpanzees.
It's quite... quite
fascinating, actually.
We have discovered that
by using emotional cues...
...we can teach them
primitive belief systems.
Of course, it's only because
they are not yet capable
of higher logical thought.
Where is the creature now?
Dead.
Poor thing. Had to be
put down, didn't it?
Why would the police be
interested in such a trifle?
There may be a connection
with a murder
investigation of ours.
Murder investigation?
Igor, this is a
murder investigation!
Am I to understand
we have to summon
the chimpanzee's lawyer?
(CHUCKLES)
Mr. Frankenstein,
I warn you
that there are consequences
for obstructing police work.
I should like to see
records of your experiments
for the past twelve months.
If you cannot cooperate,
then, by God,
I'll conduct a thorough
search of these premises.
"By God," you say?
Inspector, I must
inform you...
...that you are currently
in the home of rational,
free-thinking men.
To violate it or my research
would require a
proper legal warrant.
And God has no
authority here.
Tread lightly, sir.
You may insult me,
but you impugn the
Lord at your peril.
I should remind you that
life is a sacred creation.
Are you a police officer
or a theologian?
Let me tell you
something for nothing.
Life... I'll say this
very slowly... is merely...
...the application
and outcome of applied chemistry.
And did you or did you
not apply such chemistry
at the Royal College of
Medicine two days ago?
Igor, when was the last time
you went to confession?
The good friar has come to
see whether we have sinned.
"He that covereth his
sin shall not prosper."
I'll ask you again.
(VICTOR SIGHS)
And I will ask
you again, sir:
Why are you so interested,
nay, infatuated
with this case?
Surely there are more
interesting mysteries
to be solved in London.
Or...
...is it precisely
because this experiment,
which you imagine
took place...
...may very well discredit
your own primitive
belief system?
Uncover what you will
about me, Inspector.
Men like you have always
stood in the way of progress
and invariably been
left in its wake.
My creation...!
(EXHALES SHARPLY)
Be careful,
Mr. Frankenstein.
You toy with
wrathful forces.
And there's no
mercy in nature.
Good day.
I'll be back
with a warrant.
That thing in the
school, Igor...
...I looked into its eyes
and there was nothing there.
There is a difference
between using your machines...
...to restore a life
wrongly lost and...
...to create something that
was never supposed to exist.
Victor must understand that.
Look...
...I never thought
I'd leave the circus.
I thought I'd be in there
till I died. And Victor...
...has given me all this.
And all he asked is
that I believe in him.
I understand that, Igor.
What I'm saying is...
...don't let yourself be
bullied by anyone ever again.
Victor says he's
your friend.
But if you believe
Victor is on a wrong path,
then you must make a stand.
I have to go.
Victor, if you truly respect
me as a scientist...
If you truly respect
me as your friend...
...you must listen
to my concerns.
Igor.
Sir.
What's it been?
Three years?
You look slimmer.
I'm sorry, sir, I don't...
Is Victor here?
Yes, sir.
Very well.
Where have you been?
Not wise to be out on the town
when there's a manhunt on.
Get off his heart!
Father.
Get up.
Leave.
VICTOR: Father, I'm so
excited that you've come.
Your timing is impeccable.
I've had such
breakthroughs with my...
I don't care.
I don't care about your
poorly researched theories
or your disastrous
experiments.
Not poorly researched,
I've told you...
Victor, silence.
Yesterday I received
a telegram...
...informing me
that you are to go
before the board of
directors at the college.
They say you neglect
your schoolwork.
(LAUGHING)
They intend to expel you.
No, they can't!
Can't they?
The work I am doing
is far more important...
...than anything
they are conducting
at that damn school.
You're a fool, Victor.
You always have been.
If only you could have
been more like Henry.
But you...
You just bring shame
to the name Frankenstein.
I will ensure that the
name of Frankenstein
is never forgotten!
(GROANS)
You've done it again, Victor.
Only this time it's your
own life you've ruined.
(DOOR CLOSES)
So, what's this, then?
Finnegan's project.
My man.
He was going to be
the modern Prometheus.
Stupid, stupid, stupid.
He's also not
nearly big enough.
Yes. What?
Gordon was fast
and strong, sure,
but he couldn't
sustain any of that.
And towards the end,
he was having some
real trouble breathing.
Breathing?
Embolisms. Embolisms in his lungs.
Yes, of course.
How stupid.
So much raw energy
coursing around his structure.
His body couldn't
take the charge.
Wretched creature would have
been dead in ten minutes.
If we want to build something
that can live and stay alive,
we'll need a lot
more energy.
Tons more.
Just stop. What could possibly
generate that kind of...?
BOTH: Lightning!
Yes, I have...
...just the thing.
One of my early designs
for the Lazarus Fork...
...incorporated a structure
that actually
sucked its energy...
...from the atmosphere.
It's possible that we can
build a larger version
that would simulate
a static burst...
...similar to that
of lightning.
No, it's the same problem.
We can't just make the body
accept that charge.
We are incapable of simply
making larger organs.
What if we gave him
two sets of lungs?
You know you're
brilliant, don't you?
Why wouldn't we? He's our man.
We can do what we like.
Not just two sets of lungs...
Two hearts.
Yes!
Pump all that blood
around the larger body.
Absolutely. He'd need it.
(LAUGHING)
Igor...
Earlier, when my
father was here...
I was reading.
I didn't hear a thing.
Did he say anything
interesting?
No, he didn't.
Whiskey?
Yes. Yes, do that.
A larger chest cavity...
...to incorporate four lungs.
Two sets on the left
and the right.
Bigger with the arms! Biceps.
Now what do we do?
Tilt him.
Backwards and forwards.
Let that liquid
run through the body.
Cheers.
Here's to him.
Flat head.
Why?
Because I like it, that's why.
(BOTH LAUGHING)
To his two hearts.
(GLASSES CLINKING)
(VICTOR CONTINUES LAUGHING)
Mmm...
(VICTOR SIGHS)
Is that precious?
ALISTAIR: They've denied us
the warrant, Inspector.
As the Magistrate said,
with no sign of any foul play,
nor indeed of any crime...
No foul play?
Look at the debris
at the Royal College.
Acid burns, the same.
Bloody paw prints
on the floor.
Something's going on.
Something's happening
in that basement, I know it.
I know it.
And it's my job, my duty.
It's my moral duty to stop it.
But, sir, you
have no warrant.
Yes, he's insulted you.
Yes, he's clever.
But we have no evidence.
I don't care.
I need to find out
what's in that basement.
Now we can enact
my true vision.
You and I will take
life's raw elements,
its base components,
and we...
...shall assemble them
to our own specification,
to our own design.
(LAUGHING)
For tonight we
begin our model...
...of Prometheus.
Um...
Tonight... actually,
Victor, I was...
I've been invited
to a ball.
A what?
A ball. Lorelei's
asked me.
Lorelei?
Yes.
No, no, don't speak.
Lorelei...
I shall stay
here and work.
I'm sorry, Victor.
No need to apologize.
You should go off and enjoy yourself.
You deserve it.
You've earned it.
You can go now.
Thank you.
(OPERATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
(ALL CHEER)
(BOTH LAUGHING)
I don't know what to do.
You're already doing it.
ALISTAIR: Frankenstein,
open this door!
We'll break it down!
Open this door now!
Scotland Yard!
Frankenstein! Open the door!
One, two, three.
Harder.
Frankenstein! Open the door!
(VICTOR GRUNTING)
Victor, we have to leave!
Where have you been?
With Lorelei.
Oh, I see.
Wasting your time...
...with pointless courtship...
...while it remains to me to
take care of the work in hand!
ALISTAIR: Frankenstein!
Open this door!
Frankenstein, we're coming in!
Get this door down.
I've sent for one
of Finnegan's men
to provide a carriage.
I'm trying to overload
the conductors.
Forget the conductors!
We have to get out of here!
And let them have my machines?
Not bloody likely!
Trap door to the sewers...
it's the only way out.
Try and open it.
Pickaxe on the ice closet.
(GASPS)
What are you waiting for?
What is that?!
Oh. Uh...
Igor Straussman,
meet Igor Straussman.
What? What did
you do to him?!
Found him like that a couple months ago.
Overdose.
A couple of months?
You took his eyes!
Victor, what is
wrong with you?
You want to die in prison...
...executed by that maniac?
Hunchback!
Do you see the truth now?
This is the man who
took you from the circus.
Who would gouge the eyes
from a dead friend.
Move once more
and I'll kill you.
Do as you wish.
I have no fear of death!
TURPIN: Really?
I do.
I lost my wife...
...to a malign growth.
And in my suffering
I know about death.
That it's an abyss from which
no man nor woman
can be returned.
Would you not rather
have her by your side?
Would you not have
her live again?
She is alive.
In God's house.
And when I, too,
fall into that abyss...
...I shall be by her side.
Don't you see? You
trust in a fiction!
And you shall
be forgotten.
That's right.
History will bury you,
Frankenstein...
...and no man will
remember your name.
No, you're wrong. Igor, no!
(GRUNTING)
You'll remember me now.
(PEOPLE CLAMORING)
(VICTORG ROANS)
(BOTH GRUNTING)
Victor!
(SCREAMING)
VICTOR: Come on, Igor!
(CONTINUES SCREAMING)
Pull! Pull!
(GRUNTING)
Frankenstein,
we're coming in!
Inspector?
Finnegan.
Finnegan! Where are you?
FINNEGAN: Frankenstein! Igor!
What an unexpected surprise.
The police have raided my home
in search of Igor Straussman.
We managed to avoid
incarceration, but...
...it's just possible
we might have
gravely wounded
a police officer.
Ah. I suppose now you'll have
no choice but to leave London.
Posthaste.
Very good.
My family has an estate.
The Castle Erskine
in Scotland. It's quite...
...rural and secluded.
Ideally situated,
you might say, for...
...both your needs
as scientists and, um...
...well, fugitives.
Yes.
I'll go and
prepare the coach.
Very good, thank you!
How could you do that to me?
Do what?
Keep from me that
you had killed a man
and given me his name!
I told you, I did
not kill Straussman.
You're overreacting.
You harvested his eyes!
Details.
He was a waste of space.
This fanfare from you
is more than his own
family will give him.
All right, gentlemen,
time is of the essence.
Your coach is ready.
VICTOR: Come, Igor.
We'll talk about
this on the way.
No.
What?
What you're doing is wrong.
(LAUGHS)
You've gone mad. Come.
It's gone too far.
We simply do not
have the time.
I'm not leaving then.
Listen to me.
You have the chance
here to be part of...
Of what?
Of being lied to by you?
Of being hunted by the police
and chased by monsters?
Well, if you're
going to concentrate
on the dark side.
I'm not leaving.
What will you do?
Go back to the circus?
Resurrect your
illustrious career as...
It's none of your concern.
You're a fool.
I created you.
You think that just because
I put you in a back brace
and you cut your hair...
...you can turn
your back on me?
That you can walk out into
the world on your own?
See how far you get
with your acrobat
and your morals
and your new life.
Just come with me.
Fine.
I'm done with you.
(COUGHS)
You know... I knew
Igor Straussman.
(SIGHS) He was a real bore.
Nouveau riche.
Drug addict.
So, who are you then?
Hmm?
Doesn't matter really.
Victor's been very forthcoming
with his designs.
But I still need him for now.
You, on the other hand...
So, let's see.
Your benefactor has departed...
...your home has been
ransacked by police...
...your identity
revealed as a fraud...
...and you know far too much
for me to let you walk away.
What I'm getting at,
old boy...
...is that
you won't be missed.
(IGOR GRUNTING)
Tie him up and put
him in the carriage.
You and Victor aren't
the only ones with vision.
I, too, have a dream
of the future.
A dream where my family
will control this
new technology.
Hmm? What's that?
You don't approve.
No, I imagined you and Victor
wouldn't like that much.
You know, for men
obsessed with death,
you think yourselves
so above violence.
Curious.
Good-bye, Igor.
(MUFFLED GRUNTING)
Straussman wasn't Straussman.
The body, the frozen creature,
that was Straussman.
The young man pretending
to be Straussman
was the hunchback...
...transformed
by Frankenstein.
Inspector, this is not...
They escaped in the
Finnegan family coach.
Finnegan attends
the Royal College of Medicine.
It makes sense.
He's in on it, too,
maybe funding them.
CHIEF INSPECTOR:
Inspector Turpin, stop...
TURPIN: My guess is that
he's fled the country by now,
more than likely
alongside Finnegan...
...who, a little digging
shows, has an estate,
Castle Erskine in Scotland.
We'll find them there.
Stop it, Roderick,
damn it!
No, listen to me!
We can catch them now.
We can...
...and we will.
What do you mean?
You're being removed
from the case... sir.
From the whole force, in fact.
Constable Alistair will
be taking your place.
You are on a medical
and mental reprieve.
You had no warrant,
Roderick.
Do you have any idea
the lengths I have been to...
...in order to protect you
from criminal charges?
It was a necessary action.
Really?
In pursuit of what?
High society hunchbacks?
Undead monsters?
Conspiracies involving
one of the richest
families in England?
Yes, a conspiracy
to create life in...
...a direct, defiant
action against God.
You were the best detective
Scotland Yard had,
but now it's time
for you to rest.
You must heal.
And when you return,
you will see things
how they really are.
(IGOR COUGHING)
IGOR: Is that precious?
I took possession of
this when I was... ten.
It was a very cold
winter that year.
We lived in the country then.
It was a happy time.
We crept out of
my bedroom window
because we wanted to
play in the snow...
...and so we did.
Until we were...
...engulfed by a blizzard.
I almost died.
Anyway, when...
When the snow cleared...
...and dawn finally broke...
...I was alive.
I looked into my hand
and I was holding this.
It serves to remind me.
Remind you of what?
That God...
...if at all
He does exist...
...sent us into this
world imperfect.
We're weak.
We're fragile.
And we're destined to die.
This reminds me that
that is not good enough.
Who were you with?
VICTOR: Hmm?
You said "we".
In the blizzard.
Did I?
Where in God's name do
you think you're going?
You haven't been
out of bed in weeks!
You can barely walk!
Igor. Igor, don't go.
Don't do this.
I have to go.
He needs me.
You owe him nothing.
You're your own man.
No.
I'm the man he made me.
You're wrong.
You've always
been this person.
This brave, brilliant,
beautiful person.
He gave me a life.
I'm sorry, Lorelei, but...
...you must understand,
I have to go.
He's my friend.
Then you will
not go alone.
VICTOR: Two hearts.
Pump all that blood
around the larger body.
A larger chest cavity
to incorporate four lungs.
Two sets on the
left and the right.
You and I, Igor...
we shall create a man...
...after our own image.
An intelligent...
...civilized...
...man.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
IGOR: Stop!
Stop here!
DRIVER: Whoa!
IGOR: Finnegan's men.
Wait here.
Please take care.
What are you doing?
Go.
Hello?
Sorry, we seem to be lost.
Thank you!
(IGOR PANTING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
What's this?
Hold her here.
I'm going to the castle.
Sir, there is
a storm coming.
That man is in allegiance with
Satan... and must be stopped!
DETTWEILER:
All stations ready!
VICTOR: Engineers!
Scientists! Eyes to me!
The storm is nigh!
Conditions are perfect!
ENGINEER: Electrical
station ready, sir!
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
Prometheus moving,
station one!
(MEN SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY)
ENGINEER 2: Stoke the furnace!
We need it hotter!
ENGINEER 3:
Mind the blood pipe!
Prepare the blood!
ENGINEER 1: Fluid station now!
VICTOR: Now. Set?
Inserting.
In.Tapped.
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
Respiratory station!
DETTWEILER: Prepare
the respiratory station!
Victor.
Igor?
I'm so glad you've come.
Victor, Finnegan tried
to have me killed.
I believe he intends
to kill you, too,
when you've given
him what he wants.
We can still
get out of this,
but you must stop
this experiment.
Father sent you, didn't he?
Don't be ridiculous!
He'll stop at nothing,
and you don't know
what he's capable of!
I don't care.
What?
Finnegan's motives
mean nothing to me.
I will turn the tide of human
existence here, tonight.
Then this world which
has spurned me...
...will forever
remember my name!
No, if you do what he asks,
no one will remember
Frankenstein the man.
Only the monster!
(GRUNTING)
(GROANING)
I forgive you, Igor.
I forgive you this remarkable
lack of foresight.
So stay here!
Your brother was with you!
Henry Frankenstein.
He was with you that night.
Was he older or
younger than you?
He was older.
You must have
looked up to him.
Where did you get that?
I wouldn't be surprised
if it was your idea,
though. Was it?
To go out into the snow.
And he protected you.
And he died
while you lived.
Isn't that what all
this is about, Victor?
You want to stop
other people...
...from having to endure
that pain that you felt.
No.
No?
It's about so much
more than that.
Don't you see?
To my mind...
I took my brother's
life that night.
I have to redress
the balance.
I have to create life now.
Victor, none of
this does that.
This only brings more
and more and more pain.
And whatever path this is
that you've gone down,
this is not you.
You're a good man, Victor.
Igor...
FINNEGAN: Frankenstein!
Frankenstein! Hurry, man!
The storm is almost upon us!
Victor...
...don't.
Victor!
ENGINEER 1: Station one ready!
(MEN SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
Prometheus moving!
Electrical station!
ENGINEER 2: Electrical
station ready, sir!
FINNEGAN: Who'd
have thought it, eh?
You and I on the threshold
of immortality.
Prometheus moving!
Lazarus station!
Damn them all, eh?
The naysayers... and
the hypocrites.
For tonight, Victor,
we breathe life...
...into flesh!
ENGINEER 1: Balloons released!
Lazarus Fork.
(EXHALES)
I will give you life.
I will give you...
...life!
Prometheus ascending!
ENGINEER 1:
Station ready, sir!
VICTOR: I want full
power, on my mark.
Now!
Converter B standing by.
Full power... now!
All positions, relays open!
This is your moment, Victor!
Victor!
It's too much power!
IGOR: You know this story.
The crack of lightning.
A mad genius.
An unholy creation.
IGOR: Victor...
...don't!
Live!
Well, Victor.
Sir, I must warn you...
...we are overloading!
(MEN SCREAMING)
(VICTOR YELLING)
(SCREAMING)
No!
(FINNEGAN SCREAMING)
(SCREAMING)
No!
(MEN SCREAMING)
(VICTOR GROANING)
(YELPS)
Frankenstein!
You will burn for
what you do here.
This isn't science.
This is the work
of Satan himself.
(LAUGHING)
There's no Satan.
No God. Only humanity.
Only me!
(CHAINS RATTLING)
May God forgive you,
Frankenstein!
May God forgive you!
Out of the way, Victor!
Out of the way!
Come to me.
I am your brother.
Oh, my brother
Henry, forgive me.
I have wronged you.
For this is not life.
(SOBBING) This is not life!
You are not life!
Live!
Victor!
Out of the way, Frankenstein!
Live! Live! Live!
(GROWLS)
(CHOKING)
May God drive out
this devil...
...and be driven back
to the pits of hell
from whence he came.
(GUN CLICKS)
No!
(PANTING)
Igor, I'm sorry.
What are we going to do?
What are we going to do now?
We will do the only
thing we can do.
(OBJECTS CRASHING)
(GLASS SHATTERING)
Huh?
Shit.
(VICTOR YELLING)
(GROANING)
No!
Igor!
(YELLING)
(ROARS)
Victor...
(GROANS)
...get off.
(SCREAMING)
(PANTING)
(GROANING)
(HEART BEATING)
Igor!
Two hearts!
(ROARS)
No!
(GROANING)
Oh, my brother,
forgive me!
(VICTOR GRUNTING)
(MONSTER GROANING)
Victor?
VICTOR: Dearest Igor:
I would have waited
for you, but...
...three's a crowd
and all that.
Besides, I think
you've probably had
enough of my work.
Truth be told, you've
probably had enough of me.
Our time together is done.
Our achievements
are in the past...
...and our discoveries will
probably never be known.
But I will always
think of you fondly,
and always as my friend.
As for myself...
...I have some ideas
about where we went
wrong this time...
...and one day I may
call on you once more.
Be ready.
For now, your life
is your own...
...and I wish you
luck with it.
You are and will remain
my greatest creation.
Your friend...
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org